# Sander Sample RHCE Exam Objectives

## 1. Configure SELinux

Configure both _rhce-01_ and _rhce-02_ servers to run SELinux in enforcing mode

## 2. Configure YUM repository

Configure yum repository on both _rhce-01_ and _rhce-02_ server. The repository is provided on:

* URL: <ftp://rhce-ipa.example.com/repo>

## 3. Configure SSH

Configure SSH access on both servers in such a way that no clients within the external organization domain have access. All machines in this domain are in the 192.168.10.0/24 network.

## 4. Configure Firewall

Configure _rhce-02_ to foward traffic coming in at port 5243/tcp to port 22/tcp on _rhce-02_.

## 6. Configure Networking - Teaming

Configure link aggregation on the _eth1_ and _eth2_ network cards in both servers. IP address on aggreate links are:

* _rhce-01_ - 10.0.0.121/24
* _rhce-02_ - 10.0.0.122/24

## 5. Configure Networking - IPv6

Configure _team0_ interfaces on both server _rhce-01_ and _rhce-02_ with static IP addresses:

* _rhce-01_ - fd01::121/64
* _rhce-02_ - fd01::122/64

## 7. Configure SMTP

Configure the SMTP mail service on both server to rely mail from the local system through _rhce-ipa.example.com_. All outgoing mail should have the sender domain set to _example.com_. The SMTP service should not be allowed to receive mail for local users.

## 8. Configure SMTP Server

Configure SMTP server on _rhce-01_, that accept messages for domain _example.com_. Make sure that emails sent to user _harry_ are received by user _marry_.

## 9. Configure NFS Server

Configure _rhce-01_ as na NFS server.

* Share the _/srv/nfs/public_ directory only with clients in the _example.com_  network
* Share the _/srv/nfs/restricted_ directory with the highest level of Kerberos protection. The _restricted_ directory should be owned by LDAP user lisa.

* Share the directory _/srv/nfs/public_ in read only way, being accessible only systems in _example.com_
* Share the directory _/srv/nfs/protected_ in read and write way
* The directory _/srv/nfs/protected_ should contain the sub directory named _project_ and the owner name id _lisa_
* User _lisa_ can access the _/srv/nfs/protected_ in read and write way

A keytab files for both servers are offered throught the public FTP service on _rhce-lab.example.com_.

## 10. Configure NFS Client

Configure _rhce-02_ server to mount automatically upon reboot exported from _rhce-01_ NFS resources. The exported resources should be mounted as:

* exported _/srv/nfs/data_ - to directory _/srv/nfs/public_
* exported _/srv/nfs/restricted_ - to directory _/srv/nfs/secret_

## 11. Configure Samba Server - Share directory

Configure samba server on _rhce-01_ with bellow requirements:

* the server should be a member of work group _EXAMPLE_.

Share directory _/srv/smb/common_, which:

* should be visible as share name _common_.
* only clients of _examlpe.com_ can access the share _common_
* share _common_ should be able to browse
* user _lisa_ must be able to read the contef of the share, if necessary, verification code is "password"

## 12. Configure Samba Server - Multiuser SMB Mount

Coonfigure samba server on _rhce-01_ with bwelor requirements:

* share the directory _/srv/smb/devops_ as _devops_
* can be used by only by clients _examlpe.com_
* should be able to browse
* user _ldapuser1_ must have read-only access
* user _lisa_ must have read and write access

## 13. Configure Samba Client

Configure _rhce-02_ server as samba client that:

* automatically mount shared from _rhce-01_ samba  directory _common_ in _/srv/smb/common_ directory
* automatically mount shared from _rhce-01_ samba directory _devops_ in _/srv/smb/devops_ directory

## 14. Configure Web Server - Basics

On _rhce-01_ implement a default web server that listens to all traffic address to _rhce-01.example.com_. Give it a document root in the _/srv/web/rhce-01.example.com_ directory. In the document root directory create _index.html_ file that contains text "_welcome to rhce-01_". After connection to the web server, the content should be shown.

## 15. Configure Web Server - Virtual Hosts

On _rhce-01_ create a virtual web server for _virtual.example.com_. Create the document root directory in `/var/web/virtual.example.com_. Ensure, that on accessing the web server, is visible the message "_welcome to virtual.example.com_".

## 16. Configure Web Server - Authentication

Create website directory _<http://virtual.examlpe.com/owndir>_ under the document root of the server. Create index.html file in it with content _restricted web page_. The content of the file should be visible to everyone browsing from your local system, but should not be visible from other locations.

## 17. Configure Web Server - SSL

Ensure website _<https://virtual.example.com>_ can be accessed only via _https_ protocol.

## 18. Configure Web Server - Dynamic Configuration (WSGI)

Configure website _<http://serverX.example.com:8961>_ on _rhce-01_ with the document root _/srv/web/webapp_. Site should executes _webapp.wsgi_

## 19. Configure Web Server - Logical Port Change

Configure virtual host _<https://logic.example.com:8989>_, on _rhce-01_. Website should be accessible only via _https_ and listen on port _8989_

## 20. Configure iSCSI Target

On _rhce-01_ configure iSCSI target with 500MB LVM Volume, with name _iscsi_, that to be used as the iSCSI storage that should be exported. The iSCSI disk should be exported as _iqn.2016-06.com.example:rhce-01_. The shared iSCSI disk should only be available to clients with the IQN _iqn.2016-06.com.example:rhce-02_.

## 21. Configure iSCSI Initiator

Configure _rhce-02_ as iSCSI initiator with IQN _iqn.201606.com.example:rhce-02. Make sure exported from _rhce-01_ disk with IQN _iqn.2016-06.com.example:rhce-01_ is acccessible persistenly. Format the disk with _ext4_ filesystem and mount in on a directory _/iscsi_

## 22. Bash Scripting

Write script _/root/script.sh_, accepting single argument. If argument is:

* _fedora_ - the output to be _redhat_
* _redhat_ - the output to be _fedora_
* no argument - print error message

## 23. Bash Scripting - Part two

Create a script on _rhce-01_ called _/root/randonm_ with following details:

* When tun as _/root/random foo_ should return the output "_bar_"
* When run as _/root/random bar_ should return the output "_foo_"
* When run with any other argument or without arugument, should display message "_Type foo ro bar_"

## 24. Bash Scripting - Part three

Create script on server _rhce-01_ called _/root/createusers_ with following details:

* When run as _/root/createusers testfile_, it should add all the users from a file. All users should have the loginshell _/bin/false_. Password is not required
* When the script is run with anyother arguments, it should display error message "_Input File not Foud_"

## 25. Configure MariaDB - Basics

Create a Maria DB database named _contracts_ on system _rhce-01_ and meet the follwoing requirements at the same time:

* the database should contain the contents of the database replication, URL for copyng files is:
* Database can be access just from localhost
* In addition to the root user, the database only can be searched by user _luigi_ with password _password_.
* The password for the root user is _redhat_, not allow empty password

## 26. Configure MariaDB - Database Query

Use database _contacts_ on _rhce-01_ system and use the coresponding SQL to search and answer the following questions:

* What's the person name, whose password is _solicitous_?
* How many people's name are _John" and live in _Shanghai_ at the same time?

## 27. Configure FTP Server

Deploy _FTP_ service on _rhce-01_ with following rules:

* setup data firectory to be _/var/ftp/pub_
* users in _example.com_ must be able to login to your ftp server as an anonymous users
* users outside of _example.com_ domain are unable to login to the server

## 28. Boot Configuration

Ensure the parameter _sysctl=1_ is added to the kernel parameters during the boot process.

## 29. Cron Service Configuration

